MONOPOLY-LK Assignment Briefing — Part 1
Source file: C_Assignment_Voice.m4a.mp4
================================================================================

You have till 16th August to submit, right? That is roughly a bit less than one month, right? So today is 23rd. I just, I released this on 21st. So it's about five days, less than one month. Okay, so as I told you previously, this is basically a board game. So let's see what I'm not going to go into the strategies, but let's start with the board itself. So this thing has 40 squares. So whether that 40 squares, how are you going to model it is totally up to you, right? So we know a traditional Monopoly board has a certain square root, so that square is not always necessary when you look at the implementation of it, right? There are other ways that you can do this. So, the idea is that you have to design your own board and then the rules step by step, right? So, all the clarifications that you may have... With respect to this assignment, you can do it now. After that, I will leave it to you to do the assignment. So, the board can be anything but the thing that we need to know is it is a clockwise thing. So, I will draw the standard board, but however, there is no guarantee or you should not necessarily think. The board should be exactly like this, right? There can be other ways of, or much easier way of implementing these boards as well. So, the thing is, it's the clockwise thing that means it goes this way, right? So, it has 40 squares, so starting from the first square, zero up until the last square, thirty-nine. Are we OK with that, yeah? So, in that 40 squares, there are certain property groups, right? So, there are six groups in total, seven groups in, sorry, eight groups in total. So, these eight groups are the properties. Apart from that, there are other things within this particular board as well, so... How are you going to implement this structure? How are you going to keep the names? How are you going to have the groups? What are the attributes of a property? All of those things you have to think of yourself, right? So it's basically what you need to do is like come up with a method of remembering this information, right? So After you do that, only you have to think of the rest. So now, anything up to this point, anything up to this point, so each property will have these values, right? A purchase price, a mortgage value, base rental, and so on and so forth. Anything that you want to clarify up to this point here? Sir, base rent of properties are not defined? No, they have not. I have put table there, right? Yes, sir, but they have not. Okay, this table has not come here, so I will put that table up here. Okay, so base rent with the property is if I put that up. Okay, so then Anything else? OK, so then let's move on. So after this, you have four stations and this is basically the rent and this is basically the utility. So these are primarily if you have plate monopoly, right, if you have plate monopoly that. You all should know this is how we basically do this, right? So, this is a standard monopolize nothing significantly different about this up to this point. So, then this is where things do change, right? So, now you have a bag. So, in that particular idea, there is a cell for the bag and when a person lands on that bag cell, you have... one of these five options to execute. So, how you execute these five options are based on the player that you are modeling. There are four players and those four players will tell you what type of a thing that you are actually trying to do. So, any questions up to this point? Anything you want to clarify? Okay. So let's start with this. So if you look at a thing like obtaining a secured loan, repay an existing loan, refinance an existing loan, increase loan amount, repay a loan in full. So all of these are basically things that we are going to do provided that the person who's doing this has enough money and properties to do this right not money properties so the player may possess only one active loan at time so that means you cannot necessarily have a lot of loans right so only one loan and then the maximum loan amount is equal to uh 75% of the total mortgage value right so then uh That means if you have 25 properties, in that five properties the total value is 1000, you can get a loan up to 750, right? So that is the whole idea of this particular idea. So of the total mortgage value of all unmortgaged properties, so that means I cannot mortgage a property and remortgage a property. Right, so that means if I have, let us say, three properties, let us say A, B, and C, let us say this is 300, 300, and 400, so in this I can get up to 750, right? So, once I mortgage these things, if I am going to... refinance something, then the value should not be taken from this, right, because this is already mortgaged. So, that is the whole idea. So, collateral remains owned by the player, but cannot be sold until the loan has been settled. Interest accumulates after every completed round. Failure to repay the loan before the maturity closes foreclosure due foreclosure that means if you could not pay the loan, your properties will be seized by the bank that is the normal process, right? So that means collateral remains owned by the player but cannot be sold until the loan has been settled. So that means I cannot sell the properties if I don't settle the loan, right? So then failure to repay that means I could not pay this amount then all of these things will go to foreclosure that means bank is basically acquiring your property. So during the foreclosure mortgage property is transferred to the bank that means all the properties will be going to the bank. Outstanding debt is cancelled so that means let's say 350 was left by the time this happened. This is basically Z road, right? And if you have any houses over here, all of them would be removed, right? And if you have any insurance policies, all these properties, they will also be cancelled. Are we okay? So bank is the main, one of the main differences with respect to The standard border policy, right? So, you have loans, you have collateral against loans, and then bank can foreclose your property, right? Foreclose means take your property in the case that you need not pay, then we move on to insurance companies, right? So, there are two insurance companies, and we have three types of policies. So, anything that is not clear with respect to this up to this point, anything that is not clear up to this point, like what it is protecting against and the values, so then this line is important. Players may insure individual properties independently, so that means if you have three properties, you have to take insurance for each of them independently, so that means not for a group, but for an entire, not for an entire group, but for a single property, so that means there can be a case where you have a group. One property might be the thing that is insured, all the others might not be insured. Then let us move on, so then we come to the traditional rules. Before we come to the traditional rules, anything you need to clarify after this point? Anything you want to ask? Yeah, so one group is a set of properties, so the idea is the player can insure the entire group. That means if it is 3 properties, 3 insurance policies, or if you want to just insure one, you can do so as well. So there is... No limitation on that. If you want to insure everything, he can. If you do not want to insure anything, that is fine as well. There is no requirement for that. Any other questions? I do not understand this. What do you do not understand? I do not understand. But do you not understand about this? All right. So, anything that you want to clarify on this before I move forward? So, the idea is you have to implement these rules first and some of these rules will be overwritten by the later rules, right. So, there are about six simulation models here. So, all the six simulation models has to work together, so that is the challenge of this particular assignment, right? So, it is not necessarily creating a monopoly board. So, then, in the yesterday's class tutorial, we talked about how to separate code to different files, right? So... that is the expectation in this assignment. So your implementation, your types and things have to be separate. So I am not going to do that in the lecture again to be on the slides, but I will not do that in the lecture again. So in the tutorial we did that how to separate code into executing file, header files and so on and so forth. So in this case, So let's look at each rule. So first one is very clear. You start, everyone starts at some point. So let's say we have all four players starting here. Each have 30,000 rupees at the beginning and then we owe nothing. We have now policies, no loans, nothing. So anyone having issues with rule one? Any problems with rule one? OK, rule 2. So rule 2 basically decides who goes first, right? So how does this work? We have two dicers. So how do you debug random numbers? there is something called SRAN right seed at random number. So, that way you can always make sure that you get the same sequence when you put the sequence. So, you put seed number one your sequence might be 1578 right and when you put seed number two it will be a different sequence, but if you put seed one again you will get 1578 again. So, that way you can always debug your code right. So since we are looking at random numbers, you need to look at how to generate seeded random numbers. Or in other words, srand. Srand in I, in seed, this is basically the standard. So you have to call this first. Anytime you have the seed, all the random will generally create the same sequence. So, that is what you need for this entire game, because you need to predict your outputs, right? If it changes every time, it is very difficult for you to predict what is happening. So, since you want to get the standard sequence all the time, you are going to use this SRAN number. So, then... In this what it says is how are we going to order the play? So four players are there, all four is going to roll the dice, two dices, six sided. So that means you can have a function called roll dice. Inside that roll dice, there can be a random number between 1 to 12, sorry, 2 to 12, right? Because the minimum number is 1 on both sides, no? Maximum number is 6. So 2 to 12 is the random number that chapter to generate. So roll dice function, every time you call it, it's going to return a number between 2 to 12. Right? And that number is what these players are going to use to move around the board. Are we clear? So that is how you should think of implementing these things. Separate functions, so you can call them, change them when you want them. Right? So then each player rolls two dices. The player obtaining the highest begins first. In case of a tied, tied players re-enroll until the order is tetra byte. So that means, let's say we have four players, A, B, C, D, let's say 2, 10, 11 and 3. Let's say this is the rolls, let's say 10. two ten ten and three so then this one is going third this one is going fourth for the first and second there is a tie and therefore we roll again and in the second roll let's say three and four came so in that case this one will become one and this one will become two are we clear so the rolling order would be C B A B are we okay So, that could be the rolling order for the entire game. Any questions, guys? Anything you want to clarify? If the higher they come here, the higher they come. OK, any other questions? So, if you play monopoly, I don't know whether this is the barrier you use. right that is basically you start from one place and go around look right so this is the standard rules by the way if you look at monopoly is the original rules this is the way how it is determined right so everyone when we play uses the board we have our own version of it right so after this a player's turn consists of those eight things resolve outstanding penalties, roll 2 dice, move clockwise, and landing action, and all the other things that you have here. So, we look at each of them separately. So, rule 2 and 3, anything that you need to clarify? Outstanding penalties. loans outstanding loans outstanding insurance okay so Any questions on 223? Yeah, round means this one, CBAD. One round, each dice code, so, There are two meanings of rounds. So for this one, each player's turn, so we call about the turn. Round means you go one round on the board, right? There are two measurements. That's one turn, right? That's one round. So you have to identify the reference. Is that idea clear? So, so, so, so, so, so, then, passing or landing on go, that means you go around this. You go around this and come back over here, every person who passes that square or lands that square would be basically getting 2000 rupees. If an unknown purchasable square is landed accord, the player may purchase it at its listed price. So the listed price I have given for property groups, right? So unlike the standard monopholy board, where you have different prices for different lands, I have gone for 1 lakh price for the entire group. So that means if you have three properties, right, if you have three properties and then that three properties says base price is 10,000, that means both the properties cost 10,000 each, right? Are we clear? So, there is no specific value for each property, there is a value for group. So, why they did that was to make it less complex on calculations later, right. So, now that is what you call the listed price. So, then the player can decide whether I am going to actually do what? buy it or not if the player not buys it right the property enters an auction that means it's not necessarily so there are few variants that we play in this game sometimes you land on a property you buy it if you don't buy it nothing happens right so that is the variant most of you all have rent right so then other people has to come here to buy that property if they want to buy So, that gives a different dynamic. So, in this game this is by the way original monopholy rules this game properties go quickly right compared to what variance that we have made. So, if a lands over here right and a decides I am not going to buy this. So, that means Let's say this property X, this property is X. X goes to auction. So X goes to auction where B, C and D can basically bid. So we'll talk about the auction later. This will go to the auction. Are we clear? So then, auctions involve every player except brand of players. Bidding increases in increments of 250, highest bidder acquires ownership. So, if A decides not to buy, it does not necessarily mean A can't basically bid for this as well. A actually can bid for it, right? So, let's assume that A don't want to buy it now, but he wants to buy it, sell it at a higher price to someone else. He can do the same thing. Right? And I can bid for different, so that is really how certain property biddings work in Sri Lanka, in real world. So you have a option, you put a bidder by your side, what does he do every time some fund bids, he increases the bid. Right? So I say 100,000, that fellow says 200,000. Then I say 300,000, he will say 400,000. He will keep on going. We will keep on going until that the bidder gets the the person who's selling gets the proper price. So is it a legal practice? It's a illegal practice, right? But this is Srivatanu. So these things do work, right? So. There are things, a lot of things to learn in auctioning. Most of us have never been to those things, no? So there are things. So what happens if I make sure other people never reaches that properly? Can I do that? Has that happened in this country? Yes, right. So, there are things like that. And have you ever seen auction around this area of Kalam? No. Does that mean those things never happen? They happen, but it is never public, right? So, auctions are like that, but you have an option A, B, C, D all can bid, but if anyone of these fellows are bankrupt, you cannot bid. Are we clear? Any questions? Auction starts at the base price, right? option starts at the base price of the property then increments by uh 250 every time okay any other questions uh that's a good question because like uh this is assumed you start at the base price so most options if you go to the low disc it will get the minimum price that means if it's below that I am not liable to sell it to you right so there are rules minimum value so the here the minimum value is the base price right auction starts at the base price incrementing 250 every round okay So then let's move on to rule 7. Landing on own property requires payment of rent to the owner. If the property is mortgaged, no rent shall be collected. Obviously, you will see that the contradiction with this rule and a later rule, right? That is intended. That means I told at the beginning, these rules are standard rules the rules after that will override these rules when and where necessary so if it contradicts on the other side that means this rule has changed okay so rent table I'll share with you it has not come to the thing when I generated through latex so I'll make it available all right owning every property within a color group establish a monopoly only monopolies permit construction that means if I If I collect everything of the same color, then I can start building houses and hotels that is what it says. So, building shall be constructed evenly across properties within the same color group. So, what does this mean? Can I have something like this? So, let us say we have 3 properties. Can I have a single house in one property and nothing on the other two? Can? Who says can, who says cannot? So this is the, this is dependent on the variant you guys have played. So some, some, some variants say you need to have, start building and build evenly. That means one house has to be on each property at least. Right? So one house has to be on eat properly at least. And then you can't have four houses here, one house here, one rose here. It should go as one, two, three, four. And most the difference can be one. There can't be a difference between one property having three houses, another having two and another having one. Three and two, two and three acceptable. Is that idea clear? So, what you mean by evenly means that all properties should have houses constructed like 1, 2, 3, 4 in that order, right? You can't have a hotel in this and nothing here is not permitted. Some variance you play will let you do this, but not necessarily according to rule 9, right? So, what I meant by shall be constructed evenly across properties means if you are starting to build one house. One house has to be they are all the other properties if you want to go to two, right? One is 0 acceptable, right? But not necessarily true and zero. Any questions? So, it is a landing action. I did not get the question. Yeah, but the lagging action may... Why should I talk about the lagging action? Yeah, okay. So, first of all, I am now in rule 8, so you, when I ask whether you have any questions, you have to ask it at that point, right? I can't go to... then come back to rule 4 and do that again back and forth, right. Either you ask it at that point or you have to ask it ask for me, right. Otherwise I will be going back and forth that is how I will go. All right. Any questions? All right. So, then let us move on to rule 10. Hotel repairs as four houses. These are common things. I am not going to explain these things in detail. A property cannot simultaneously contain houses and hotels. That means you can't have more than one hotel. You can't have a combination of hotels and houses. So, landing on income tax requires a payment of specified tax immediately. Failure to pay follows a normal debt recovery process. Any problems with this rule? So, the idea is this, so I think in the other table only you have the income tax value as well is not specified, right? So, that table has a certain value, so that value is what that I will upload after the lecture, that particular table and the value. So, and then if you cannot pay that amount, you will be basically required to sell your property and pay the amount, right? Sell your mortgage, your property and pay the amount. If you don't have properties and you don't have money, you lose the game, right? That is called bankrupt. Are we clear? So, tax fee, we are going to have a flat rate, not a bracketed rate. right because bracket rate will make more calculations right so we'll stop that so landing on go to jail will transfer the player to the jail and it so if you are over here and the jail is here you are going to you are not going to go this way and here anyway you are not going to collect money if you get to jail right irrespective of whether you pass it or not and then rule 13 Is pretty straightforward, right? Any questions? You can pay 300 and go, or you can roll doubles. Doubles means one, one, two, two, three, three, and up until 66, right? That is what you call doubles, right? And remain in present for three times. That means I can skip by 12 for three times. OK, so players become bankrupt whenever liabilities exceed available assets. Upon bankruptcy, everything goes out, right? Remaining assets transfer according to the bankrupt results defined later in this specification, right? So that means if a player goes bankrupt, that means that player is out of the game. So then only the remaining players will play. Is that idea clear? So the game concludes when one player remains solvent that means all the other players are bankrupt and one person remains. So at that point the game finishes or the game will go on to 500 rounds. So this is a self playing game that means you are not supposed to interact with it after it starts right and then and then after 500 rounds the winner is chosen based on this particular calculation. Any question guys? Anything up to this point that you want to clear up to rule 15? So, that is basically normal monopoly right. So, then this is the extended rules of 1.3 so that means anything that is contradictory to the above rules which I just discussed these rules will prevail that means the top rules have been modified so now we have loans so a player may borrow money only if sufficient collateral exists that means if he has property to mortgage buildings are not considered for Collateral, that means only the properties, railway stations and utility companies. Are we okay? The maximum loan amount, okay, so what could be the amount a person can get is 75%, which is this. But remember, in this game, these values can change because of inflation and deflation. So that means game may start at a property being at 300. But as inflation, it might go to 600. So that means that value of the property will be the 600, 600, 800, that will be 2000. So then at that point, you will have 1500 at your disposal. Is the idea clear? So it's not always the base value that will determine the loan value, current market value of the property. So, current market value would be what is the current value based on all the conditions that affect the property. Is that idea clear? Yeah. Sir, I think the mortgage values for railway stations are not defined as well. Mortgage values for railway stations are basically for the same values as properties, right? Railway station value is there, base value is, right? So, everything which is with the current market thing will get attached to that as well. So, this should be pretty clear. Anyone want me to explain this? Rule 2, how to calculate seventy-five percent? That's where the state call, right? So, then we come to Rule 3, what you cannot cannot do. So, Rule 3 basically says you can't sell it, you can't trade it, cannot be auctioned, I can't mortgage it again, and I can still get rent if someone lands on it, right? And I can still build on it. Is that idea clear? So that is also the modern real issue. Everyone buys a land using a loan, and then you build on it. And if you can't pay the loan, house all the goals with it, right? Is that idea clear? So, if you understand this simulation, you can understand certain reality of life here. What is the reality of life you understand? Bank can keep on printing money and there will not be any consequences to the bank, right? If I keep on printing money, what's going to happen? The inflation is the one that's going to rise, and that's all. So, besides this point, like does it make sense? So, if you increase salaries, what's going to happen? You have more money in the market, more money in the market at this point, temporarily I can buy little things more, but temporarily that means after some time the market is going to come because the demand is going to get higher. Then, again, you need to increase again, right? So, what you should do is basically reduce search and things in some other ways, because if you understand this, I can keep on printing money, right? And I can keep on printing money, and money is worth but nothing after all. So, that happened to us in four years ago, right? Is that idea clear? OK, so... Any questions up to rule three? Okay, then we go to rule four. Loans have an initial duration of 20 rounds. At the end of every complete round, interest is accumulated. Interest is compounded according to the current loan and current interest rate. The accumulated interest becomes a part of the outstanding loan, right? So, what does this mean? If you have 1000 rupees of loan, let us say the interest rate is 5%, so that 5% for each round, you are going to add 5% to it, so that means 100, sorry, 1000, and then 5% is 50, 1050 for the second round, it is 5% of 1050, so you keep on going for 20 rounds. Right, so this is not equated loan things that you see on banks this is just direct calculation, right? Equated loans are much more difficult to calculate, so therefore it is just the flat line calculation. Whatever is left, you calculate 5% on top of that. Are we clear? So, rule 5, a player landing on a bank. May perform one of the following actions: pay, repay part of the loan, repay the entire loan, extend the loan period, increase the loan amount, right? So now, what is the problem of Rule Five? Sorry, we can extend the loan. Many times you want, as you have, so you have 20 rounds now, so maximum ceiling is 20, so you can extend it up to 20 again. So, obviously, you take a loan, you take one round, 2 rounds, and then you go again and extend, you can extend up to 20 again. You cannot have an indefinite extend, right? So, indefinite extend up to 20, but to do this... You have to land in the bank cell. So, what is the complication of this rule? Can you lose your properties for a loan even if you have money? Yes or no? Yes, why? If I don't land in the bank, I can't pay the loan. And therefore, you run the risk of getting foreclosed. So that is a deliberate representation. Is that idea clear? This is banking about 50 years ago, before you and I were in existence, right? So you take a loan. I think it is much better, by the way, right? If you hear the news that... Anthropic doesn't know what has happened when someone has hacked some website so now AI is running the people who created AI also has no clue WhatsApp so the soon the solution is going to be what? pull the plug that is the solution right then you will be back in business again right so if you are good that is so you should actually catch us to pull the plug So that will increase your economy, right? OK, so by design, rule 5 says a player landing on a bank may perform. So that means if you land on the bank only, you can pay, right? If I don't land on the bank, I can't pay. That means it's 20 rounds. are going to accumulate again it is got a nice loan this one right it is a very badly designed loan for that specific reason. So, why why is this because otherwise people will not go bankrupt that easily. So, this is by design make sure the game gets quickly right. So, if you take a loan you need to be lucky one in 20 times to land back on the cell So, 1 in 20 is 5 percent that is roughly fair chance right. So, in that case by rule 5 if the person didn't land on that same set for 20 rounds that means at the end of the 20th round his properties will be foreclosed. Is that idea clear? OK, extend the loan period, extend the loan period up to 20 rounds. So that means let's say I have now gone from 15 rounds. I have 5 rounds remaining. I can extend it for another 20 rounds, right? But that means whatever the amount, 5% is getting compounded. Is that ideal player? And most importantly, one action only. If you decide to extend, you cannot pay an extend. You either extend or you either pay. Is that idea clear? Because if you have multiple actions, programming will become very difficult, right? Because then that is different thing to consider. Should I pay half an extend? Should I pay it in full? So that part is not there, OK? So then failure to repay a loan within this duration causes loan default. When loan default occurs, all assets immediately transfer to the bank, hotels are demolished, insurance properties are cancelled, outstanding debt is cleared. The player continues the game using any remaining assets, right? Let's assume the player doesn't have any assets, but he has the udiya mark is received on you. So can he play the game? Yes, he can play the game until he goes negative, right? And when he goes negative, he goes back. If all pledged assets are pro close and the player possess no remaining assets, assets in this sense, not only property, money, right? Money is also an asset, right? The player isn't playing back. Are we clear? OK, anything you want to clarify from Rule One to Seven on loans? So, if you are going to program this scenario, you program one section by one section: loans first, board first, basic rules first, then add loans, then add insurance, check each one of them, and if you do that way, you will get a working program. But if you try to put everything together, it has too many moving parts, right. So the idea is, I'm going to look at the solution as well as its design. How well have you designed this? Okay, any questions? Okay, so then let's look at this. Insurance protects players from disasters and unexpected economic loss. Insurance can be purchased from those things. Three insurance policies exist as specified in the earlier section. Again, expires after 20 rounds and players receive renewal reminders three rounds before expire. So that means I can extend it for 20 rounds, right. And if it tries to expire, After 17 rounds, it will say your policy is going to expire in the next three rounds. So, again, you have to land on these things to purchase again. So, random disasters may occur every 10 rounds. Possible disasters are this. So, every 10 rounds, you will see that... you will have fire or flood or specifically to one specific property or multiple places of properties right so if insured the compensation is immediately deducted otherwise repair cost must be paid to the owner so that means if that property is insured when that disaster happens immediately the money is given to the owner else and the policy is done after 20 20 years 20 rounds slip but up If I make a claim and I give the money, policy is finished. Is that idea clear? So, the policy does not keep on going forever. So, damaged buildings cannot collect rent until repairs are completed. Repairs are automatically performed when the owner has sufficient forms. So, this one damaged building is defined later. So, any questions? Yes, come here. You mean do I have to have selling for? If you take from selling for, should I increase that policy using that? Yes, you have no, right? Otherwise, it is like... It's like put out there. It's basically like you were sitting in Jaipur elections and you will get a degree from here. Okay. So any questions? Any other questions? Yeah. No, only one insurance. Okay, not real world. Only one insurance. If you want to go call people or buy in part one, right? One insurance per property. Right? Can we have Mandipal, but Mandipal will make the scenario more complex. Right? So, remember this, when these events happen, properties will get damaged. So, what do you mean by properties will get damaged means? Structural damage and things which is defined later, so when things are damaged you can't collect rent and stuff, that's what it says. So, what does it mean that every 10 rounds? So, every 10 rounds means like, so let's say there is a clock that starts, so there is a round tracker, so that means every 10 rounds there will be a disaster that can occur. No, There should be a game tracker of 10 rounds. So, game tracker should have 10 rounds to pass. So, I would like to put another one as well, but since I want to converge the game quickly, I didn't put the other one. Sixth one would be nothing. For example, there can be a round that no effect, no disaster happens, right? But since I want to converge the game quickly, every 10 rounds, there would be a disaster. right and it will affect a specific property. Are we clear? If your ear is to throw the dice, round is basically 1 circle. So, here the round is 1 circle, right. So, 1 circle is defined as all 4 brains going the round, right. Okay. So then, so there are few things that I want to clarify here with the round, right? Round has ambiguous meaning, you know? So now you might, you will say CBAD is one round for players, that is throwing, right? Players going through this is also one round. So, those two rounds are different, right? So, player 20 rounds means a loan has 20 rounds means 20 of those rounds, right? Turning rounds means one of four of these. So, loans and insurance apply to this, right, and including events. So, don't get that mistake of like saying, OK, this is a... One, two, three, four, one round. So that way, some players might not even reach half of the board by the time 10 times comes. Let's say he throws 2 consecutively 10 times, so he will only go half of the board for 10 rounds. Is the idea clear? Okay, so then we have inflation. So inflation only... these rates nothing else right and affects these things all values are affected by inflation are calculated using new value equals previous value into 1 plus inflation right very straightforward equation anything you want to clarify so when you take clothes if inflation is in plane these values will not get modified according to this equation And at a later point, I have also told that anything that gets inflated, the value remains as such once the inflation wears off. So that means, so now if the price was 100, due to inflation it became 150, let us say we had 10% inflation somewhere, let us say 50% inflation somewhere, so it has gone to 150, but now the effects of inflation has gone down and then... Let us say it has gone to -3%, so it is going to go down from this price, let us say 147, that should be the new price, not from this. So, that is the thing that you have to remember, right? So, it is not from a base price that inflation happens. Inflation carries the price, once it defects are over, that price remains. So, good example for that. Our petrol land could from 2021 to whatever now we went to about 70% inflation or 80% inflation everything rose from like 20 rupees to 200 rupees. Now inflation has come down the price is still 200, right? These are idea there. So, do you think this petrol prices are going to come down anytime soon? You know, right? Will it increase? Yes, right. So, property of thinking is going to come down to like 200, so that is how inflation works. OK, so then we have property depreciation. I think rule 15, every property records this age. Property age is increases. Every complete round, right? Complete round, this right, so... How does the property age work? Does it from the start of the game or from the time you bought it? Now, all this property is basically about many years old, no? So, in University of Karabul, Hayabal, what happened about 300 years ago? So, 300 years ago, what was here? Three 150 years ago, what was it? University, then, if you go to old plans, you will see this is the area where he had a large Harakpati, right? It's in the plan, it says, right? There is a name you call it. Let's say cinnamon gardens, cinnamon gardens, dairy and faq. Right? So, uh, so the what level of harath part can be done responsible? I know. Same way, when you buy something, from that point only the age can continue. So that means, yeah. So properties owned by, so even the properties owned by bank can be depreciated as well or, okay? So, only no, property is owned by bank, nothing happens. So, bank has everything to be pristine, right? So, once you start owning a property, it becomes your property. From there on only, the age starts were given. So, it's basically like this. Now, if you look at our Nakara Sabha, right? Nakara Sabha has lot of kanu and all with all the tempu vadulwas, right? But if one thing is in your company, that becomes the problem, right? Correct. So for the bank, bank is nothing happens to them, right? Age starts going from the time you start buying that. Any questions? Yeah. Yeah. Age resets so age does resets so anytime I so that is how it works. So if I own the property everything that happens to that property is my responsibility right. So the age of the property determines from the time of the deed of the property that you have and then once someone acquires it after that age resets from 0 to that person. So, we are talking about that because otherwise that does not make sense because all these property can be tracked way back to like millennia, right. So, in that case that we are all going to have a development. So, what we consider is anytime if a bank has a property, age is 0, right. When I acquire a property, age starts to accumulate. If I have a loan. and that loan I cannot pay and bank takes the property, it resents back to this. Is it ideal? And if I repair the property, it resents back as well. Any other questions? Anything else you want to clarify with 2.4? So, let us move on to 2.5. So, this is basically experiencing our economic story, right. So, this is what are the things that can happen during an economic event, right. So, these economic events, any questions? anything you want to clarify on these economic events. So, there are events that can happen. So, these events will have these kind of events. So, every 15 rounds this occurs every 15 of these rounds this occurs. So, that means, if you say property value decreases by 15 15 means this inflated value, inflated value 15%. Is that idea clear? Not 15 from 100. So how I would do is I want everyone of you to have the SRAN done and you will have a predictable set of sequences. I have written this, so I have a predictable set of sequences. I can put my random seed into your code and check whether it performs as what I did, right. So that is basically how I am going to check this. How we are going to check this apart from the viber. So all of you are going to come to a viber. You are going to answer the questions that we have. It can be one, two, many, right. More bigger the whole you dig, more questions you are going to get, right. So then Then we will run your code according to our scenes, right? So we also have output and we match the outputs. Is that idea clear? So if it is changing, we check what is changing. So based on that only you will be given the final break. Okay. Any questions after this call? anyone want clarification on rule 18 this yeah so every 15 rounds so so that means for effect it will run last for 15 rounds so so these things does not necessarily affect every place right sometimes it affects the entire board sometimes it Affects different places, so now in this case, railway double and property development is building increases, right? Not necessarily buying houses, so southern coastal properties, there are set of properties that you can identify as southern coastal, so those things will increase only, so those are the so every 15 routes it will last, and then after 15 routes another thing will happen. Any other questions? So, options happen under these three conditions, right? Bankrupt players' assets are liquidated, foreclosed assets return to the bank, and a property is declined. So, all solvent players participate. Solvent means... what you call what you mean by solvent means you have money to pay for yourself right so all solvent pays participate begin begins at 50% of the market value so I have a base price base price changes to inflation inflations 50% can't go below base is that right yet clear base is the absolute minimum so someone asked me that question right base is the minimum inflation will raise the price half of inflation but can't go below base right are we clear so then minimum bid increment is 250 a player withdraws permanently after decline to bid highest remaining bidder wins those are very straight forward if no player bids ownership is in the bank A player cannot bid more cash than currently available loans cannot be obtained during auctions, easy payment scheme, right? So that means basically you should have the money to buy. If you don't have the money, you can't bid. So you want to bid 500, you have 400 rupees, you can't bid. Is that ideal clear? OK, so then we come to government regulations. So, this is the tax rates. So, you have property tax. So, government periodically introduces these rates. So, I have said every 20 rounds one regulation is selected randomly, right. So, in Srilanka, every one round we have one regulation selected randomly, right. Who starts the bidding first? Who starts the bidding first? We will apply the same policy over here, right? That means the order of the people who reach elected at the beginning, and we can drop the people who are insolvent. OK, so then let's move on to this. I think this is a pretty straight call, but anything that you want to discuss. So this last one players may own at most. Three undeveloped properties, additional purchase requirement you are developed within five rounds, right? So that means if you want to take more properties which is not developed, those have to be developed first, right? That means so then... OK, so then building the appreciation and make balance, anything that you want to clarify on this development means you start something development, right? All right, so then... Building depreciation and maintenance so this one decreates with H every house and hotel shall maintain condition rating each building begins with 100% condition decreases with 2% at every round every round means this right building condition directly affects the rental income based on this table so if your condition is this This is the amount of rental income that you can take. So, if you have 2000 rupees rental income, if your building is between 25 to 49 percent, I can only take 1000 rupees, right? And if it is below 25, you cannot collect anything, right? So, players may perform maintenance only at the beginning of their turn. Maintenance restores the building condition to 100%. Maintenance costs are as follows. 5% of the construction, 8% of the construction. That is fairly straight forward. Houses per house cost into four at most, right? If maintenance is ignored, structural damage occurs and reduces the property value by 50, reduces the maximum rent by 25%. and increases the limit of interest cost by 50 percent for that property only. So, this is the thing that you have to keep track per property. So, the last one is also how to fix this. So, anything that you want to clarify with respect to rule 25 to 29. Inflated cost. So, everything about cost here is inflated cost right. So, this is the economic simulation. So, this is not base price. So, effects happen to the price, every price you are going to deal with is inflated cost. Only thing that is different where the base cost is required is for the options. Where you can't go below the base cost, let's say 50% of the inflation cost is below the base cost, then you start at the base cost, right? Base cost is only required for the first 10 to 15 rounds, where no events are happening. After events are happening, things will change, so then we go to dynamic property market, so this is... Every 10 rounds in addition to whatever we have said. So remember all the effects are compounding. So what do you mean by compounding? Acts on top of each other. So it's not like one this here, the other one does not apply. So for example, everyone pays tax in Sri Lanka, right? You also pay tax in Sri Lanka. How? Why? Why stuff, right? So, I pay tax and buys up. So, I get paid by tax as well as buys up. So, that is compounded. So, that is what this means. So, every effect here is added on top of each other, right. It is not like one defect stops and the other one starts. Is there an idea? So, these are the values that you are going to have. These things are going to be straightforward, right? So, these things are going to get affected for a property group, not for a single property group, right? So, a property group affected by a boom or decline cannot be selected again until at least 30 rounds have elapsed, right? That means, if I have selected... A group, let us say zero to 10, that effect is there I can only select that again at 40 again, is that idea clear? So then we have regional development cards, so this is basically other effects that you may have for every 15 rounds, right? So, at the expiration of regional development period, all affected values returned to the normal market adjusted values, unless other active event is still influenced in them. The simulations are this way, currently active regional market at the end of every round, which I have given the format as well in the document. So, that is the rules. We will talk about player behaviors in a bit. Anything you want to clarify about the roles? So, round is very simple. We consider it to be a round where all four players have gone through the both side. That is it, right? And if some person is jailed, in that case, for those throws, other three people can be considered, right? Otherwise, the round is getting longer, right? So, if three, four people are there, one goes to jail, three people passes the go symbol, considered one round, right? OK, any other questions? Normal marked adjusted values is inflation and all the adjusted values, so without this effect, so that means whatever effect that you currently have is on top of the inflated values, you revert back to the inflated values apart from some other thing is affecting it again, that is what it says, right? Any other questions? So, rent table I will put. So, these are the loan interest rates, right. So, the base rent table is basically missing. I will put that up. So, this is basically the property price. So, here every property in that group costs 1500, that's what it means, right? So, these are the national event cards, right? So, when you land on a square, also these things will become active. So these cards are applicable to the player who leave the card for 15 rounds in addition to the other modifications that we talked about, right? So there is a slight difference in this one. So now there is a, there is a, so in this, if you go here, there is something called national event card over here, right? And another one over here, 22, right? So, I have defined natural events in events other places as well, so those things are going for rounds globally, right? If you land on those things, either 7 or twenty-two, you pull from the table in Appendix A, right? That is, in addition to whatever is currently happening, is that idea clear? And that applies only to that player, is the difference clear? So, let's say we have all the events happening and some player lands on square #7, and when you go to square #7, you are going to pick from one of these things, right? So, these things are going to apply to that player only on top of what are the other modifiers. Is the idea clear? So... And it is going to apply for 15 rounds, and this has to be a stack that means it has to be in that order. If I pull the first one, that one is going to go to the end, right? Is there an idea here? So, this is basically a some kind of a queue we will learn about the queue structures. You all have, I think Prasad sir should have introduced you to those things, stack and queue. Yeah, so we'll talk about that as well a little bit. So if you have the cards as 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, one draws, one goes over here. Then 2, 3, 4, 5, again one. Anything you want to clarify up to this point? No, no, no, no. National event card. National events of the year. Ewa out. Rata fall. Ewa play at the national events. National event card deck and a player. A KTN effect. Sorry. So, is that idea clear? So, the thing is, this has a compounding effect. That means, if a pair ends on square saver, And if in the same round he lands on square 22, you are pulling two cards. That means two effects are going to get affected. So that means a player can get affected two times or three times every round, every round around the board, right? So there is 36, 22, and 7, right? 36, 22, and 7 is basically Events that can happen. So that means I can pull three cards per round. That three cards are going to be affected directly to me only in addition to whatever risk that we have. So this is the thing that you have, you will have difficulty in modeling. Why? Because this is dynamic. Per round you can get three and if I for next 10 rounds every 10. Every round I land on 7, 22 and 36. I'm going to have 30 events, 70 with different diamonds. Is that idea clear? Any questions? Anything you want to manage? Is it too difficult? It's too difficult. All right. So then I'll change it like this, right? If you pull the same card twice, right, the effects could be reset. So that means let's assume, let's assume that this person, his fuel shortage is applied to this person, right? So it says railway rent doubles for the next 5 routes. So, if we pulls that card again in one of those things, that entry is within those five rounds, it will reset to five rounds. Is that idea clear? So, that means there is 20 cards. So, let us say player A has one, two, three, up to 20 cards. There are 20 cards at this point. This is these two are in operation. Let us say that player apply takes a card again and again you get 2 right. In that case what is going to happen is I am not going to have 21 being 2 again. 2 is going to get reset. That means let us say railway rent doubles for five rounds. Now I have gone for four rounds and the next round effect is going to go off. But I pick the card again, so I renew it for another five hours. Is that idea clear? So that way the complexity reduces a lot, right? Are we clear? So those are the things that we should discuss in class during the assignment, so the clarification will be clear for all, right? Any other questions? So that means you can have a space for each car. How you want to keep it is up to you. You can have a space for each car. The land, the capture, the property, property, property, property, OK, any other questions? OK, so we'll take a break and then we'll talk about player behavior after that.
