MONOPOLY-LK Assignment Briefing — Part 2
Source file: C_assignment_voice_2.m4a.mp4
================================================================================

Including purchasing, bidding, and other things, so that means this entire behavior is governed by this. So, in this case, you will obviously know behavior is not deterministic always, right? Behavior to part is deterministic, to a part is not deterministic, right? So, that you have to remember, so... So the aggressive investor is one of the first behaviors. So we can have four players. First one is aggressive investor seeks to maximize long term wealth through rapid expansion and property development. So this guy's goal is to develop properties and develop them quickly and have a lot of money by the end of it, right? This player prioritizes acquiring monopolies and generating rental income rather than maintaining a large cash reserve. So there are people who is very rich, but they don't have money to show for that, right? In Sri Lanka also we have this problem, where people are very rich, they don't have money to show for that. Don't have to go far, you go around Colombo 7, you will see it, right? Property is worth billions, they do not have money to show for that, right? So, if you take what could be the going price for a perch in this area, at least 3 to 400 million per perch, right? So, but if you have 6 perches here, you have 1000 rupees in the bank account, you are very rich based on assets, right? But liquidity is not there. So most trader funds are basically like that, right, asset heavy. That is typical of third world countries, right, or developing countries. So in this case, by the way, assets are good, right? Assets are not bad. So some people, I say in Facebook and all experiencers are the ones that are worth, you don't have to do this and that. How do you handle that for the experience when you can't go to nearer, right? So that is the thing that you have to understand, right? So they say, why do you want to buy land? Why do you want to buy a house? I can earn and travel the world. Travel the world. Travel the street. Right? So that is the thing that people have to understand, right? So why am I saying this thing is that people are, all these social media aspects, people are just gag posture. Right, they are not necessarily true, but there are a segment of people who consider this to be true, right? And when people consider those to be true, it is very dangerous, right? And you saw that France has now banned social media for people under 15, right? Why should they? It should be actually under 18 should be social media banned. 18 is a Bharat Prachal, right? It's a very... No, I'm saying it's like it's a very bad influence, that's all. Just check the time of all of your polls at the number about all of your polls as trackers. If you are in Samsung, Samsung has well-being tracker. It will tell you how many hours you used a particular app for a week, and at all the social media together, you will get a very nice number, right? It is close to about twenty-four hours a week, right? So, that is basically what's happening. So out of those 24 hours, what have you gained? Nothing. Out of 24 hours, what has they gained? A lot of money. Why? You are clicking the ads and all the things as well. Now that's also nice, right, with AI generated ads. So then let's look at these behaviors. So behavior of this player is as follows. Always purchases an unknown property if sufficient funds remain to pay at least one future rent, right? So that means what do you mean by a future rent? So rent can be, I have not put the rent table, rent can be any value for different property groups. So you can consider it to be a future rent. In the sense, maximum rent possible, right? One maximum rent possible, you have money after paying the property. I always buy the property. Is there an idea here? So, it's like you come to the place, lawyer's office, to take the property, and you pay the money in your hand as long as you have bus fare to go back home, right? So, that's something like that. Is there an idea here? So, you have at least one future rent. So, future rent means better to keep the maximum possible rent, so that means he can pay more rents if that is not the case. So, then, if this person lands on a property that is with the bank, he will always buy it, provided he has money to pay one future rent after paying the property. Is there an idea there? Always participate in options whenever that means if he is not if he have the money bids aggressively until the property reaches 120% of his estimated market value. So now I started with base price. Nook base price is 120% least you know what, but then we adjusted it. Nook after adjusted we went to 50% of that. So 50% then goes up to 120%, he will increase by 250 up until 120%. Is that idea clear? So in that case, he will bid up until 120% and then he will not bid very well. Constructs the maximum number of houses immediately after obtaining a monopoly. That means as soon as I get a monopoly, The task in my next round, if I have the money, is to create, develop the houses and the hotels as quickly as possible. So this way you will not have to make a decision, should I make it this round or next round. No soon I have the money I will. So that way the behavior is deterministic. Is that idea clear? All these limits are because to make it more deterministic as possible. Otherwise, it's open for interpretation, right? So then converts houses into hotels as soon as legally permitted means as soon as the conditions meet in the next round he will do that right Obtains those whenever additional ones can increase the projected rental income repays those only when excess cash exceeds twice the outstanding loan amount right Purchasers only basic insurance for houses and comprehensive insurance for hotels. Never voluntarily sells the property unless bankruptcy is unavoidable, right? Prioritizers acquiring premium properties such as Golfways and Lorelli. So that means he always, in the auction, if these things come up, he has a priority towards those things as well. Are we clear of this? Very straightforward behaviors, anything that you need to clarify here, anything you want to ask about the behavior. So now the question can be like, when the next round comes, now I have two monopolies. Let us say I landed, I have two monopolies in the previous round, I have the monopoly, I did not have the money. And then in the same route, I acquired another property, created two monopolies. Now I also have the money to develop on both. So which one should I pick? So in this case, there is no reference to that. So always the rule of thumb is to maximize wealth. Maximize wealth means build the one that gives the most wealth first. That means if it builds A house in a expensive property which gives you more and you build that first. Is that idea clear? Any questions? So then let us move on to conservative banker. So the conservative banker prioritizes financial stability and minimizes unnecessary risks. Maintaining a positive cash flow is considered more important than acquiring humorous properties, so that means I always need to have a certain cash flow with me rather than having land. That means I don't want to get stuck in land purchasers if it disturbs my flow, right? That's the whole idea. So, purchasers property only if at least 50% of the current... Current cash remains after purchase. So that means if my property value is 300, I should at least have 600 with me to purchase this land of 300. Is there idea here? OK. So then, participants in auctions only when bidding below the market value. So what do you mean by bidding below the market value? You have an inflated value. You go 50% down the inflated value that is considered within below the market value, so then you go up to 100%, then you stop. Is that idea clear? So, let us say, let us say our base is 300 now the property has inflated to 1000, so now it is up to auction. So, auction rule is 50% of the market value, so that means you have... 500 now you start bidding at 500 you start bidding at 500 and then at 250 each time so he will keep on be participating in bids up until 1000 less up until or equal to 1000 those who know the bidding goes beyond this guy will withdraw from the bid is that ideal thing so Avoids obtaining loans unless bankruptcy is imminent that means if I do not have money to pay or to maintain something, so let us say I have a monopoly and a hotel, I do not have rent because why? I have no money to fix the structural limits, so therefore I need to get a loan to fix it, otherwise I will run out of money and go into bankruptcy. So thereby in such a case, this person may take a loan. Apart from that, this person will not take loans. So repays loans immediately whenever visiting the bank if sufficient funds exist. So that means I come to the bank, if I have enough money, I repay it immediately. That will be my first action. So, always purchase comprehensive insurance for every developed property never develops hotels until all outstanding loans have been settled, right? So, you have to, from these behaviors, set the priority for each behavior. So, each behavior has a priority. So, when that is not there, you go to the next one that is how you decide on these behaviors, right? Is that idea clear? So, then request railway stations and utility companies due to their predictable income avoid investment during economic recessions. That means anytime you have economic recession cards or national events happening, this guy does not invest. Invest means no properties being purchased or no developments done. Right, both of them are considered investment renovates depreciated properties immediately, once depreciation reach 10%, maintains the largest emergency cash reserve among all players, because he always needs 50% of cash flow to be there. So then, any questions on the second player? Anything you want to clarify on the second plan? Yeah, it applies to options as well, because this idea is basically to make sure he has 50% more once you have the property backward, so it applies to options as well, so... Whatever the money he has, it should not go below 51 that could be his priority rule. If that priority rule fails, then he will not participate. So, that is why you will assign a priority for each rule. Based on that money, you should decide which one to be can use. Yes, so any property, so that is that is his basic rule. So, there are, there are, there are people, so, let us assume, so this is something like this: there are people always say, I would never buy a credit card, people would say that, so it doesn't matter whether I don't have the money, I will never buy a credit card, so that is kind of a rule is there, I want 50% reserve to buy property, so property means railway and all the other things as well. So, then we will move on to the third one, risk taker. So, risk taker attempts to maximize returns to highly speculative investments. So, Willing to incur significant debts that means he likes to take a lot of loans right in the percent of revenue expansion, purchase every available property whenever equally possible. So, what does that mean? Every time he lands, he buys, right? So, always borrows the maximum loan permitted that means he goes to seventy-five percent all the time. Frequently refinance the loans to increase available capital that means, once you land in the bank, he will refinance it again to increase his capital that means, whatever the properties that was not mortgaged will also get mortgage and increase in the value, but participants aggressively in every option bids until available cash is exhausted that means... This fellow will keep on bidding until he wins or he runs out of money, like some of us, right? Once we start doing things, we keep on doing it until there is a certain limiter, right? Limiter here is doesn't have the money, right? Constructs hotels early as possible, purchases insurance after experiencing a financial loss, so that means... Okay, this is a thing that you have to remember for this failure. If he experiences a loss through a damaged event, like earthquake or something, after that event only he will purchase insurance. Is right and clear? No, no. So, he can purchase insurance whenever he wants. So, he will only purchase insurance, start purchasing insurance. After he gets a loss, so, property-wise, one property gets damaged, now he gets the message, so now he is charged to purchasing insurance. After till then, no insurance, so there is a chance he will not take insurance on the entire game because his properties might not get damaged at all. Sir, does the inflation that you have mentioned that he only purchases insurance when there is a financial loss? So, does the inflation count as a financial loss? No, inflation is not a financial loss. Inflation loss comes as either you selling or either you do damage, right? So, you have a natural event that can happen, your property gets damaged and now you don't collect rent and then you have to build it up over again for the penalties. That is a financial loss where the insurance would have covered for. So, that is what you expect. Because inflation if you take financial loss that's much more compressed to model. OK, any other questions? So then ignores property depreciation until repair becomes unavoidable. So this is now a typical feel of that case, right? So we will still be there until it comes right to our head and then we start doing something, right? Same model. In the meantime, buy something else, right? So that is the whole idea. So convey, convey continues investing even during economic downturns. Miss Burnham sells low value properties to finance premium development. So that means I can have a very expensive property block with me. I want to do a hotel there in my next round. So, in that case, I might sell one of the smaller properties I have to the bank or to the auction in order to get the money. Is that idea clear? So, then prioritize the expensive property group over balanced portfolio. So, that means I would like to have the expensive a dark blue group or the dark green group with me. and if I want to develop it I will do anything possible to develop it is the idea clear ok any questions on player number three so you will have questions when you start implementing this bring it to the class so we will discuss right because there is partly deterministic partly non deterministic aspects Any other questions? Medium break properties and all. So I can sell a property at any time at the beginning of the round, right? beginning of the round is beginning of my turn right but I can't do that with the loan because loan has to be you get well go to the bank right yeah not here no no so once he loses he financially he gets the message you need insurance and generally he is not the insurance right so like boss Srilankans right How many of you have actual health insurance? Okay, few people, good. All of us, other people are dependent on government system, which is good. Our government system is brilliant. But we also need to understand government system is, especially times like this is very congested because of they go and all the things, right? So if you want to get attention quickly and stuff, sometimes you have to go right. You don't have money to do that, and therefore some people they don't remember, I would have done insurance. Take another example: you build a massive house, you don't take fire insurance or property insurance, something happens, then only you create a massive asset, no insurance. So that is what this particular thing means, right? So most of us works like that. Because insurance, we consider it as a cost, so it's a cost, right? It's never a benefit, right? So it's a cost, but that cost sometimes becomes useful. It's okay. So are we okay with this? Any other questions? Okay, the last guy. Opportunistic trader. The opportunistic trader continuously valuates perfect conditions. before making investment decisions. Unlike the other players, this strategy adapts dynamically to economic events and government regulations. Behavior of this player is as follows. Merges as properties only when the projected appreciation exceeds construction costs. How do you measure this? So, remember I have put a table up for purchase prices, but that purchase prices is only applicable for the first rounds. After that inflation changes everything. Effects of inflation are permanent, right. Even if you reverse inflation, it's not going to go back to the same rates, right. So, So, in this case, what do you mean by project when projected appreciation exceeds construction process? So, let's assume you have a property group where VI is a suitable and in that case the appreciation of the property group for the next 15 or 20 rounds is 20% or 30%, right? And then you trade off. against an amount of money that you have to pay to build things. If one is greater than the other, you build. That's how you do this. Is that idea clear? So, all the effects on the property and the money I would gain, so let's say for the next 5 to 10 rounds, right, and then versus the amount of money I am spending would be a good bet. there's another metric which I didn't want to include to say projected appreciation if frequently players lands on that if projected appreciation goes up but that's a much more complexity much more complexity to program for all properties so therefore I didn't want to do that because otherwise you don't keep statistics to for each round How many players landed on this particular property? So higher the landing, higher the appreciation, higher the gain. Preferred discount structures versus other direct purchases. So that means would like to buy things at a discounted auction price rather than directed price that means market value 50% of the market value I would like to buy it less right that's what opportunistic means I wait till it goes to the auction and then try to buy less than the market value right based on other two players behaviors whether they he will be successful or not is a difference right If player A and player B first two fellows hamper E, this strategy is not going to be successful. Outtakes loan only when projected returns exceed borrowing cost. That means I will take a loan basically to develop something or something in my monopoly property and in that case I have to also do the same calculation as the 0.1. purchased comprehensive insurance only for high value developments. So, high value means construction of hotels and stuff on high value property. Delays construction during inflation, accelerates construction during government house subsidy periods. So, any of these two things are there, his behavior would change. breakaways property was depreciation exceeds 15% sells properties expected to decrease in value following economic event so that means there is a property that uh it is going economic event has happened and it's going to decrease in value over a period of time so therefore he would actually sell that right so that is his decision to sell it based on whatever the current market says Maintain a balanced portfolio consisting of residential properties, railway stations, and utilities, tries to hold all of them. Always evaluate that expected return before making a financial decision. So, what do you mean by an expected return? What do I gain out of this? So, this what do I gain out of this? I will leave it for your interpretation. How do you calculate that? So... During your viva, you will have to tell me how you did that, what you mean by your expected value return. So, this your 200 programs will have 200 representations, right? So, that is a non-deterministic part. So, that is player 4, so those are the four players. Any questions about the core players? Anything you want to ask? All right. So then let's go on to our program requirements. So the program shall simulate co-autonomous players. That means all core players has to be there. Once program starts, it should run on its own, right? There is no expectation of it to stop or you to give input somewhere in the middle. All decisions shall be generated programmatically according to the assigned behavior. Random events shall be generated using an appropriate pseudo-random number generator. So, random events are what? Dice rolls, those are the random events, right? All the others have a certain period of 15 rounds, 20 rounds, and so on and so forth, right? All monetary calculations shall be performed using integer values apart from interest calculations, right? So that is a part I want to add here, so that means 100 into 1.5. let's say 1.57 so you might get a value of let's say sorry 10 into 1.57 15.7 so for the purpose of the calculation you can use floating point or double numbers but after you calculate this you have to round this to the nearest integer either idea clear so this applies for the Interests, as well, so all the interests have 5%, 6%, and all the things you have to apply it fully to the value, and after you get the value, you have to round it up or round it down, right? So, round function will either put it up or down, depending on the value, so that is the thing that you have to do. Game will play on intelligence. Is that right again? So, this will make it much more cleaner to see, so that is why that it has be integers all calculations in double right, but game will be played in integers, so that means you have to round it up. Are we clear? So, every vote shall be base shall be represented using appropriate data structures. What is the appropriate data structure for this? Very easily array of structures, right? Nothing else, right? There is no dynamics on this board, nothing changes overtime, so therefore there is no need for any form of dynamic allocation. It is a static board, right? I have not done dynamic allocation in the class yet, and you don't need dynamic allocation here. for this entire game what you have done up to now is enough to be registered aside so then all players shall maintain independent financial records every property shall maintain ownership, development, insurance, mortgage, depreciation and so on and so forth and the simulation conditions we have already told and Winner shall be determined according to the rules specified earlier, so then these are the files I expect your game to have, right? Types.h will have all the data types user defined or otherwise that you are going to have in this game, right? So, your cell of this code or a property is a data type. That has to be defined obviously as a structure, right? So that structure has to be in this types.h file. Board will have the board initialization movement logic, player decision making algorithms in players.c and so on and so forth for other things. So I actually need these seven files to be in your submission. You need to mandatorily have this seven if you want to have more for yourself, you can, but I need this seven in the bare mini, so let's say if you come up with player.c as player A.c, player B.c, player C.c, that is perfectly fine, right? But in that, if you don't do that, I need this seven files to be there, so your code has to be separated from this seven files. Are we clear? So, the main method will only have one line of code start the game, that is it, right? Board will have the gaming logic, so you will import that code and say sir, and then game will start accordingly, and start the game with a certain seed if you run the way you go, so then so... Global variables shall be avoided wherever possible. Dynamic memory allocation should be used only where justified. If you know dynamic memory allocation, once we discuss it, you think it is necessary, you have to tell me why it is necessary. At this point, there is no reason for it, right? Unless you find a reason and you justify it to be that you need. Is there an idea? so therefore there is nothing to allocate dynamically right but if you decide to do dynamic you have to tell me why did are we okay all right so program must compile using that form that is we already know so all code will be has to run on GCC right I don't mind whatever the editor you use has to run on GCC so these are the output messages this is very self-explanatory anything you want to ask about these messages or the game in general so the messages has to be exactly like this So, then you have the apprentices, rent, base rent, ideal ratio is available. So, base rent, does base rent change? What do you think? Really? So, now inflation increases the property price from 300 to 1000. At 300, the base rent was twenty-five rupees. Now, 1,400,000 also you give twenty-five rupees. So, base rent in Colombo 7 about 50 years ago was about 200 rupees. Now, would you rent the property for 200 rupees? No, right? So, base rent also gets affected by inflation and all the other factors, right? So everything that affects the price will affect other prices as well. So that is a normal thing. So whenever there is a scarcity of something, prices go up, right? So that is the rule. When there is a market demand and there is a scarcity of that resource, prices go up. So in 2022, that happened. So we had a scarcity of petrol and therefore the prices went up. And some other people created the scarcity of other things by hiding things and the prices also went up. That is also possible, right? So is this idea clear? Okay, any questions? So I will upload that. And I think income tax value, I will make it very clear as well. So, apart from that, there is nothing for nothing I have missed. The red table was F here, but apparently it does not count as something has happened with the generation. So, then anything you want to clarify with respect? Yes. A. Prehasta hatharadanami selavar whole karana. Eid whole karamama, eata passe, badima ekna ekka, devan ekna dekka, dungekka, dungekka, dungekka. Any other questions? So all pricing affects all other pricings. OK, so for this game, it has to be command line. I don't expect graphical outputs, right? If you can do graphical outputs, good, but I'm not going to give you after that, right? If it interests you to put graphical outputs, do that. That's a good exercise, right? But... For the purpose of the assignment only command line messages as given right nothing else should be used. So anything we want to clarify we can clarify within the next few weeks. So 16th is the last week of this semester for you guys. So you have to submit in the last day of this semester right. your vibars will be after the exam right so that means between 21st of September to middle of October right so we will announce dates and based on dates we will call you for a vibar right and mark each two parts your running code one part your explanation the other part Your code runs well, you can't explain anything 0, right? So, your code doesn't run well, but you can explain whatever doesn't run well, you get marks, right? So, it's not basically, if you want a good grade, this is 40% of the overall letter grade. Others come from your tutorials and other things, right? If you did not submit, you all have already those marks for that, right? So then, so this 40%, if you want to get a good grade, do it by yourself you will not forget the things that you think otherwise, what is going to happen? Is like, if you do not do it by yourself, it is very easy for a person listening to know that you are not making sense, right? So, you might think you are making sense, but the person who is listening to you knows you are not making sense, so that is why it is very important for you to do it by yourself. Number one, as an assignment, #2, as may be the largest programming exercise you guys have done up to now. right maybe yeah some may people might have done different projects right uh so are we okay with this any questions is this assignment hard no right this is not hard if you break it into pieces if you take it three days before the submission like you do with the other ones yes it's going to be very hard right if you break it into game first basic rules next, then the additional rules afterwards, then the behaviors include click and face. But if you try to put everything together and run this, it's not going to work, right? Because you are going to have a lot of moving parts to consider, right? And there are a lot of things to test. Okay, any questions? So, the other 50% is going to come from the exam as I told you. So, if you want an A for this subject, you have to score at least 25 out of this, right? Assuming you get 50 out of the other. Are we okay? If you have any questions, Make sure you ask, right? If you don't like to ask in the cars, you can come and meet me and ask. But if you have them, you have to ask. Yeah. Bank has unlimited money. So bankers are always got robbers, so we have unlimited money. So how did money come into play actually? What is money basically? Money is just printed paper, no? So money has basically no value. even though we have given infinite value to it. So if you look at money, how money was invented is basically you have things like gold, gems and stuff. We used to trade things with those things. So trading gold became much more hazardous because you have to transfer large amounts here and there. So what banks did was they issued currency in place of gold. So bank has gold. And then you have currency. So then once you trade currency that means bank can give you gold to that amount of currency. That is how it started. Now the gold is not the currency is there, right? So that means it is it has no value. So let us take a philosophical argument. If you go and take a loan from a bank, right? Bank gives you 100 rupees. So let's say you are the first person, ever the bank is issuing you, issuing money. So if the bank is giving you 100 rupees and expecting 110 from you, where does that 10 come from? If all the money in the system is on that. So that's a philosophical question that you think a lot and you might get a very weird answer, right? So basically, Idea is those them has to be generated. So generated means those days when people go and dig for gold, they have gold and they generate money. But nowadays it comes to businesses that you make business and you earn money. But at the end of the day banks are basically coming cash. Cash is printer paper. So we have a nice printer, we can also do that, but we can go to jail as well. So any questions? all right so I think yes Vesak right so okay okay the the one last thing I don't practice Vesak Pohon and things right so that means no answer that means if you don't do this you are not going to get any marks so if you do well I am one of the few people who think while to give you 40 out of 40 right equally the opposite Right? I have no incline to give you 0 than other people as well. So make sure you understand that. You can score 100 with me as well as 0 with you. So that means you do your work, you will get a mark that is very close to very good mark. But if you don't do your work or you try to play, which you will eventually, not you means, you per se, now look at the class, half of it is missing. So obviously the other half you will have at least half of people trying these things, right? So, if they get caught, if they get caught, that is, that is the outcome, right? So, I have no qualms of failing people or pass rate doesn't matter to me if you don't do bad, you get bad, right? If you do really good, entire batch also, I'll give you 100%, right? No problem for that as well. And if the entire batch is bad, I'll give you entire batch 0 as well, that is also good. So, make sure you understand that, right? Because this is programming. right so this is deterministic that means you are supposed to come up with a solution and you might think that is harsh but in reality that is not because AI and things are coming up they are replacing people at a rate right and now and they are going to get replaced very soon as well the way they are going but before up until that time you have to know what you are doing if you know what you are doing only you will exist Otherwise, you will be easily replaced if you are there to copy a code from Claude and just hit run there is no point in it, right? Then you are not a programmer, just a glorified copier and a paste. So, that is the thing you have to remember, because if you listen to how many of you know who Andrew Heng is? Yeah, OK. Andrew is a very famous machine learning professor and who is the person who started Coursera, right? So he talks about why people, why this notion of people think you don't need to learn programming now and because AI will do it for you. That's the worst perception that you're going to have, right? So you might think, Okay, our jobs are taken by AI, right? That is also good by the way. Seriously good. Seriously good, right? But if you are going to go into that industry, in this industry, you have to be good at what you are doing. That means you should know what you are doing. It's not AI is doing something and it is running. If AI is doing something and it is running, at one point in time, AI will do it by itself and not. Then you don't need to do that. Like it has happened yesterday, you know, it has hacked into some website without telling. So some AI agent has hacked into, I can't remember the website, without a human actually intervening to start there. So now they are basically working on their own. So at one point in time, we will not be able to control most of the things, and the obvious option is to pull the plug. So once you pull the plug, you have locks, right? So that's the thing you have to know. And by the way, we don't have a job problem. UCSC people don't have a job problem, which are good. So that's the thing. But the market is congested. I told you that market is congested with about 3 to 4000 people coming from other people places. But that doesn't mean if you are good, you are good. Doesn't matter whether other people are coming as a lot of people. But what you should make sure is if your price point is high and their price point is low, they can put three of them for one of you, but that one of you has to be better than the three of them. That's the only thing that I tell you. If you've got here being the best in this country, be the best in this country. All right, so any questions? All right, I will see you next week.
